

We want to introduce a new software product / app into the market.
When introducing a new product it is always a good idea to do a 
PEST-analysis, since this is an analysis which can inform decision making processes,
like strategic planning and give insights into the external factors of a SWOT-analyis.


1. **Political Factors**:

The most important political factors that might influence our business model might be
labor laws, data privacy protection laws, AI related laws and copyright laws.

When it comes to labor laws, our business model might mostly profit. 
The Workplace Ordinance (ArbStättV) regulates the basic requirements for workplaces and specifies the responsibilities employers have towards employees with regard to the design and maintenance of their workplace. The ordinance serves to ensure the safety and protect the health of employees when setting up and operating workplaces:
"When setting up and operating workplaces, the employer shall implement the measures in accordance with Section 3 (1), taking into account the state of the art, occupational medicine and hygiene, ergonomic requirements and, in particular, the rules and findings published by the Federal Ministry of Labor and Social Affairs in accordance with Section 7 (4)." (Translated with deepL) source: https://www.arbeitsrechte.de/ergonomie-am-arbeitsplatz/
The General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) regulates the handling of personal data and is also applicable to employee data. Employers must ensure that personal data is processed in accordance with the principles of the GDPR.
This means that our data product needs to fulfill the GDPR, otherwise we can not sell it B2B. 
Also our buisness model might be influenced by the implementation of the EU AI Act. "Conducting a risk assessment to determine the level of risk associated with your AI system" may be recommended. https://www.credo.ai/eu-ai-act?utm_term=ai%20eu%20act&utm_campaign=EU+AI+Act&utm_source=bing&utm_medium=ppc&hsa_acc=9234903900&hsa_cam=20678021731&hsa_grp=1328212367439342&hsa_ad=&hsa_src=o&hsa_tgt=kwd-83014213781517:loc-72&hsa_kw=ai%20eu%20act&hsa_mt=e&hsa_net=adwords&hsa_ver=3
Furthermore, it is necessary to assure every pretrained model or 3rd party software packages used for the implementation
of our product is either copyrightfree or a license needs to be acquired. 
Potential Risks and Opportunities from these political factors:
-    If the Workplace Ordinance (ArbStättV) gets even strikter, this could be an opportunity for us to further establish the      B2B part of our business model. Already now, it is a good environment to sell our product to businesses that could save      money from not having to regularly pay 3rd party companies specialized on setting up ergonomic workplaces. But we might      suffer if the Workplace Ordinance (ArbStättV) regulations concerning ergonomic workplaces might be dropped or loosened       in the future and businesses would not have to be held accountable for health implications of the workplaces of their        employees anymore. Luckily, this is not a realsitic scenario at the moment. 
-    The exact formulation of the EU AI Act is still outstanding and brings some insecurities. This might be a threat to our      business as it involves more bureaucracy and care to comply to the regulations. But as it looks right now,
     our business model would not fall under one of the strikter regulated AI applications.
-    3rd party licenses might be expensive and eat up our revenue. Even software that is now available for low prices of for      free could be more expensive in the future. Indirectly, free available AI software might be less accessible due to the       upcoming regulations of the EU AI Act. Therefore the EU AI Act might be an indirect threat of our business model.
-    The GDPR is already (one of) the striktest privacy protection law(s) worldwide. Our business might profit from it since      people want their data privacy protected and since our product uses a camera that operates in the background people          might not buy it or even wellcome it in their offices, if it is not ensured that their privacy is protected.                 Implementing strong data privacy measures might be costly in the beginning but be rewarded in the long run. 


2. **Economic Factors**:

Right now, one of the economic factors that would influence our business model most is businesses that pressure their employees into returning to the offices again. Less remote work would influence our business model, since the B2C part highly relies on the people working remotely but still wanting to have ergonomic working conditions. It might also deminish the amount of possible buyers in total, because a person working remotely often still has another workplace in the office, doubeling the numbers of workplaces per person. People returning to their offices for all days in the week would in total mean less demand for our product and our profitability would suffer. Another factor in the economy would be the distribution of jobs in general. If the (national) economy would develop into less office / desk jobs overall and more manual labor, this would be a problem for our business model in the beginning. In the long run, the business can also focus on manual labor, where ergonomic posture is also a very strong long term health factor that is often not met. So this could rise the demand for our service from the manual labor side. But it needs a lot more training and training data to include all possible manual labour applications, so this could have a negative impact on our overall profitability. With AI introduced into economy, it is unclear how the job distribution will develop in the next years. Right now AI technologies mostly threaten higher skilled workes in desk jobs, but this not necessarily means more manual labor employment on the other hand. It is vital for our business model to watch these developments closely to take strategic measures at the appropriate time. Also the currently high inflation rates might have a negative impact on the demand for our product since businesses may need to keep investments low to survive. 

3. **Social Factors**:

Social aspects that may impact our business might be changing sensibilities towards AI monitoring. The trend in recent years was people being more and more desensitized for data privacy issues. The wide spread use of social media presence where everyone is giving up at least parts of their privacy voluntarily or just accepting that this is the price for having online attention and connection with friends and acquaintances. This trend is in favour of our product because otherwise people might find it scary (some maybe still do) to be constantly visually monitored at the workplace, even if the data is anonimized at the location before it gets sent to be evaluated by our AI model. A change in lifestyle, social media use and consumer attitudes towards a higher sensibility for this kind of monitoring might therefore threaten our business model. We would need to invest in good marketing, TÜV certifications, etc to assure our customers that their privacy is protected. This could negatively impact our overall profitability. But right now, it seems the trend towards desensibilisation is still unbroken. Another social and cultural aspect impacting our business might be the concept and importance of health in our society. Recent trends lead to a focus on the continuous improvement of healthy behaviour, aiming for longer and better quality of life. Our product greatly profits from this trend, especially in the B2C sector but this also influences the regulations that control the demand in the B2B sector. If this trend changes, the demand of our product might decrease making our business less profitable. For now, the demographics are on our side. A lot of older workes, already suffering from back pain due to unhealthy ergonomics at their workplaces for decades or neglected ergonomics at their remote workplaces that impact older people faster and harder, should stabalize the demand for our product for the next five years. A threat for the demand of our product in the long run though might be the mass retirement of the boomer-generation, that is already happening. The step-by-step retirement of this numerically strong generation might influence the demand of our product. Also younger people that do not want to work five days a week could influence the need and as a result the demand of our product. If people work less and move more in their free time they might suffer less chronic pains or it might take longer to get those even if they do not work under ergonomically good conditions.

4. **Technological Factors**:

Since our product is state of the art in technology and automation the influence of technological factors may, for now, not be this big. It is still necessary to have R&D positions to watch out for technological improvements and new technologies, that might lead to better predictions of ergonomic poses or better data privacy prediction, smaller and more ecological AI models and technology, etc. The idea is to stay in a state of the art position regarding our product, so that new developments are not a threat for our business.
The main technological threat to our business model is a big tech company picking up the business idea and incorporate it in their business model. It would then be within an operating system or microsoft 365 applications which would then be ubiquitous and not be a business model for a small or middle sized company anymore. It would drop the demand of our product significantly and abruptly. 

**Analysis and Interpretation**:

The incorporance of our business idea in a big tech framework like on operating system base or on the base of microsoft 365 office applications is the biggest and severest threat to our product. The likelihood of occurence is not too high but not too low either. It would especially be a threat in a moment when our product is up and running well and a big tech company would realize its usefulness and potential.  



